docs/api/suspense.md, before:

# Suspense

See [Render-as-You-Fetch (using Suspense)](../guide/render-as-you-fetch-suspense.md) for usage.

## ObservableResource

```typescript
Class ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>
```

<Badge text="v2.2.0"/> Rewires Observable to Relay-like Suspense resource.

**Type parameters:**

- `TInput` Value type of the input Observable.
- `TOutput` Resulted resouce value. Default TInput.

**Constructors**

```typescript
new ObservableResource(
  input$: Observable<TInput>,
  isSuccess?: (value: TInput) => value is TOutput
): ObservableResource
```

**Parameters:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`input$` | `Observable<TInput>` | An Observable.
`isSuccess` | `(value: TInput): value is TOutput` | Optional function that determines if the value emitted from `input$` is of success state. If false a Suspense is triggered. Default all true.

**Public Properties:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`shouldUpdate$$` | `Subject<undefined>` | Emit when the Component needs extra rerendering.

**Public Methods:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`read` | `(): TOutput` | Return cached value on success state. Throw suspender on pending state. Throw error on error state.
`destroy` | `(): void` | UnSubscribe input Observable.

## useObservableSuspense

```typescript
useObservableSuspense<TInput, TOutput>(
  resource: ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>
): TOutput
```

<Badge text="v2.2.0"/> Consume the Observable resource.

Unlike Promise, Observable implements multiple push protocol.
This hook triggers necessary re-rendering when Suspense should restart.

**Type parameters:**

- `TInput` Value type of the input Observable.
- `TOutput` Resulted resouce value. Default TInput.

**Parameters:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`resource` | `ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>` | Observable resource.

**Returns:**

`TOutput` resouce value.

Commit message:

refactor(observable-resource): add reload

docs/api/suspense.md, after:

# Suspense

See [Render-as-You-Fetch (using Suspense)](../guide/render-as-you-fetch-suspense.md) for usage.

## ObservableResource

```typescript
Class ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>
```

<Badge text="v2.2.0"/> Rewires Observable to Relay-like Suspense resource.

**Type parameters:**

- `TInput` Value type of the input Observable.
- `TOutput` Resulted resouce value. Default TInput.

**Constructors**

```typescript
new ObservableResource(
  input$: Observable<TInput>,
  isSuccess?: (value: TInput) => value is TOutput
): ObservableResource
```

**Parameters:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`input$` | `Observable<TInput>` | An Observable.
`isSuccess` | `(value: TInput): value is TOutput` | Optional function that determines if the value emitted from `input$` is of success state. If false a Suspense is triggered. Default all true.

**Public Properties:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`shouldUpdate$$` | `Subject<undefined>` | Emit when the Component needs extra rerendering.

**Public Methods:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`read` | `(): TOutput` | Return cached value on success state. Throw suspender on pending state. Throw error on error state.
`destroy` | `(): void` | UnSubscribe input Observable.
`reload` | `(newInput$?: Observable<TInput>): void` | <Badge text="v2.3.5"/> Clean up and resubscribe input Observable. For errored hot observable there is no way to resubscribe hence a `newInput$` must be provided. Otherwise if omitted the original observable will be resubscribed. It is recommended to use cold observable if possible for easy reloading. (Also for those who are unfamiliar with observable temperature, even though a `Subject` is hot, `subject.pipe(...)` is cold.)

## useObservableSuspense

```typescript
useObservableSuspense<TInput, TOutput>(
  resource: ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>
): TOutput
```

<Badge text="v2.2.0"/> Consume the Observable resource.

Unlike Promise, Observable implements multiple push protocol.
This hook triggers necessary re-rendering when Suspense should restart.

**Type parameters:**

- `TInput` Value type of the input Observable.
- `TOutput` Resulted resouce value. Default TInput.

**Parameters:**

Name | Type | Description
------ | ------ | ------
`resource` | `ObservableResource<TInput, TOutput>` | Observable resource.

**Returns:**

`TOutput` resouce value.
